Reference group TMA4268

Third meeting: May 15, 2020, 10:30-11:00 via Zoom
Present: Andreas Matre, Erling Solberg (replacing John Lau who quit the course), Stefanie Muff (Course coordinator)
Missing: Sara Elise Wøllo


1. Steffi welcomes the students and thanks them for joining the meeting. She asks about general thoughts about the course, and how the students think the transition from contact lectures to digital teaching worked, and whether it has affected the quality of the course.

2. Erling would recommend the course. He liked that we did a lot of modeling, predictions etc, and that the participants got to know so many tools (like in a "playground"). Although the course does not go very deep in terms of theory, he thinks this is ok, because most other courses are already covering the theory very well. Andreas is also generally happy. He liked the overview of different analyses and to see "What you do when you get data" into your own hands. This is a nice complement to the theoretical courses. 

3. Digital transformation: Both students think the transformation from contact lectures to online teaching went smoothly. They like that lectures were given online and also recorded (partially). This can make the learning experience more efficient, as everybody can watch the lectures when he/she wants. In addition, they think the course is particularly suitable as a digital course, especially thanks to the availability of the online videos by Hastie and Tibshirani (see here: https://www.r-bloggers.com/in-depth-introduction-to-machine-learning-in-15-hours-of-expert-videos/). A suggestion for next year is to make watching the videos before the lectures compulsory in a "flipped classroom" manner, so that we could spend the lecture time to answer questions, go deeper into the material, make quizzes, or offer more supervision of applied tasks. This would at the same time strengthen the interactive parts. 

 
4. Other points:

- Steffi asked why so few students were in the supervised sessions before corona. Multiple reasons according to the students: Unsuitable lecture times, students often don't come to campus for only 2h, they might also sit somewhere else and discuss in their group, and only come to class when they have questions. 

- Erling suggests that it would be great to have a 4h session, with lectures first and exercises following up. Steffi says that this was what she tried to get, but it was not possible to book rooms accordingly.

- Finally, Steffi informed the students that grading of compulsory 3 is over and that correction had to be a bit strict, in order to prevent "too many A's". 


In summary, students seemed happy with the course, while the above mentioned suggestions could make the learning experience still better.


